Broken PR. Will be deleted (#9924)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/dev/troubleshooting/performance/schemas/_includes/overloaded-shards-diagnostics.md

> # Diagnostics of overloaded shards
> 
> 1. Analyze the **Overloaded shard count** chart in the **DB overview** Grafana dashboard.
> 
>     ![](../_assets/overloaded-shards-dashboard.png)
> 
>     The chart shows whether the {{ ydb-short-name }} cluster has overloaded shards, but it does not indicate which specific table shards are overloaded.
> 
> 1. To identify the table with an overloaded shard, follow these steps:
> 
>     1. In the [Embedded UI](../../../../../reference/embedded-ui/index.md), go to the **Databases** tab and click the database.
> 
>     1. On the **Navigation** tab, ensure the entire database is selected.
> 
>     1. Open the **Diagnostics** tab.
> 
>     1. Open the **Top shards** tab.
> 
>     1. In the **Immediate** and **Historical** tabs, sort the shards by the **CPUCores** column and analyze the information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Diagnostics of overloaded shards

1. Analyze the **Overloaded shard count** chart in the **DB overview** Grafana dashboard.

    ![](../_assets/overloaded-shards-dashboard.png)

    The chart indicates whether the {{ ydb-short-name }} cluster has overloaded shards, but it does not specify which table shards are overloaded.

1. To identify the table with an overloaded shard, follow these steps:

    1. In the [Embedded UI](../../../../../reference/embedded-ui/index.md), go to the **Databases** tab and click on the database.

    1. On the **Navigation** tab, ensure the entire database is selected.

    1. Open the **Diagnostics** tab.

    1. Open the **Top shards** tab.

    1. In the **Immediate** and **Historical** tabs, sort the shards by the **CPUCores** column and analyze the information.
```

    ![](../_assets/partitions-by-cpu.png)

1. To pinpoint the schema issue, follow these steps:

    1. Retrieve information about the problematic table using the [{{ ydb-short-name }} CLI](../../../../../reference/ydb-cli/index.md). Run the following command:

        ```bash
        ydb scheme describe <table_name>
        ```

    1. In the command output, analyze the **Auto partitioning settings**:

        * `Partitioning by size`
        * `Partitioning by load`
        * `Max partitions count`

        If the table does not have these options, see [Recommendations for table configuration](../overloaded-shards.md#table-config)

> 1. Analyze whether primary key values autoincrement monotonically.

Reviewer: How?

> 1. To pinpoint the schema issue, follow these steps:
> 
>     1. Retrieve information about the problematic table using the [{{ ydb-short-name }} CLI](../../../../../reference/ydb-cli/index.md). Run the following command:
> 
>         ```bash
>         ydb scheme describe <table_name>
>         ```
> 
>     1. In the command output, analyze the **Auto partitioning settings**:
> 
>         * `Partitioning by size`
>         * `Partitioning by load`
>         * `Max partitions count`
> 
>         If the table does not have these options, see [Recommendations for table configuration](../overloaded-shards.md#table-config)
> 
> 1. Analyze whether primary key values autoincrement monotonically.
> 
>     If they do, see [Recommendations for the imbalanced primary key](../overloaded-shards.md#pk-recommendations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To pinpoint the schema issue, follow these steps:

    1. Retrieve information about the problematic table using the [{{ ydb-short-name }} CLI](../../../../../reference/ydb-cli/index.md). Run the following command:

        ```bash
        ydb scheme describe <table_name>
        ```

    2. In the command output, analyze the **Auto partitioning settings**:

        * `Partitioning by size`
        * `Partitioning by load`
        * `Max partitions count`

        If the table does not have these options, see [Recommendations for table configuration](../overloaded-shards.md#table-config).

2. Analyze whether primary key values increment monotonically.

    If they do, see [Recommendations for the imbalanced primary key](../overloaded-shards.md#pk-recommendations).
```

1. To identify the table with an overloaded shard, follow these steps:

    1. In the [Embedded UI](../../../../../reference/embedded-ui/index.md), go to the **Databases** tab and click on the database.

    1. On the **Navigation** tab, ensure the required database is selected.

    1. Open the **Diagnostics** tab.

    1. Open the **Top shards** tab.

    1. In the **Immediate** and **Historical** tabs, sort the shards by the **CPUCores** column and analyze the information.

    ![](../_assets/partitions-by-cpu.png)

    {% note info %}

    You can also use system tables to get information about overloaded shards. For more information, see [History of overloaded partitions](../../../../system-views.md#top-overload-partitions).

    {% endnote %}

1. To pinpoint the schema issue, follow these steps:

    1. Retrieve information about the problematic table using the [{{ ydb-short-name }} CLI](../../../../../reference/ydb-cli/index.md). Run the following command:

        ```bash
        ydb scheme describe <table_name>
        ```

    2. In the command output, analyze the **Auto partitioning settings**:

        * `Partitioning by size`
        * `Partitioning by load`

>         * `Max partitions count`

Author: Moved the comment
